README.md, before:

# wirth
## Niklaus Wirth's Algorithms + Data Structures 1976

Revisiting Niklaus Wirth's classic book. Still relevent 45 years later.
Pascal was used throughout the book. Amazingly, the code still compiles (unchanged) using the 2020 version of Free Pascal. https://www.freepascal.org/

I'm re-working the algorithms in JavaScript, Python, Scheme, and the original Pascal.

### Insertion Sort
This method is widely used by card players. It is a stable sort, it leaves the order of items with equal keys unchanged.

The number of key comparisons in the i-th sift is at most i - 1, at least 1, and -assumuing that all permutations of the n keys are equally probable- 1/2 in average. \
C_min = n - 1 \
C_max = 1/2(n^2 + n) -1 \

The least numbers occur if the items are originally in order; the worst case occurs if the items are originally in reverse order.

O(n^2)

*Divergence from Wirth*:
Because there are two termination conditions, Wirth uses the "sentinel technique" of setting the current item in the iteration as a terminating value at index zero. This increases the index range by one. This seems unneccessarily complicated than simply checking both termination conditions, and introduces a duplicate value in your data, which, itself could lead to subsequent errors.

The recursive versions increase memory consumption from O(1) to O(N) 

Inside the box! The **Modern Fisher Yates Shuffle** included (to give me something to sort), also one of my favorite algorithms. 
The Fisher-Yates shuffle, in its original form, was described in 1938 by Ronald Fisher and Frank Yates in their book Statistical tables for biological, agricultural and medical research. The modern version of the Fisher-Yates shuffle, designed for computer use, was introduced by Richard Durstenfeld in 1964 and popularized by Donald E. Knuth in The Art of Computer Programming.  O(n)

Commit message:

added JS selection sort, updated readme

README.md, after:

# wirth
## Niklaus Wirth's Algorithms + Data Structures 1976

Revisiting Niklaus Wirth's classic book. 45 years later it remains relevant. 
The book is written with Pascal. Amazingly, the code still compiles (unchanged) using the 2020 version of Free Pascal. https://www.freepascal.org/

I'm re-working the algorithms in JavaScript, Python, Scheme, in addition to the original Pascal.\
Learning Pascal is fun! \

### Insertion Sort
This method is widely used by card players. It is a stable sort, it leaves the order of items with equal keys unchanged.

The number of key comparisons in the i-th sift is at most i - 1, at least 1, and -assuming that all permutations of the n keys are equally probable- 1/2 in average. \
C_min = n - 1 \
C_max = 1/2(n^2 + n) -1 \

The least numbers occur if the items are originally in order; the worst case occurs if the items are originally in reverse order.

O(n^2) \

*Divergence from Wirth*:
Because there are two termination conditions, Wirth uses the "sentinel technique" of setting the current item in the iteration as a terminating value at index zero. This increases the index range by one. This seems unnecessarily complicated than simply checking both termination conditions, and introduces a duplicate value in your data, which, itself could lead to subsequent errors.

The recursive versions increase memory consumption from O(1) to O(N) 

Inside the box! The **Modern Fisher Yates Shuffle** included (to give me something to sort), also one of my favorite algorithms. 
The Fisher-Yates shuffle, in its original form, was described in 1938 by Ronald Fisher and Frank Yates in their book Statistical tables for biological, agricultural and medical research. The modern version of the Fisher-Yates shuffle, designed for computer use, was introduced by Richard Durstenfeld in 1964 and popularized by Donald E. Knuth in The Art of Computer Programming.  O(n)


### Straight Selection Sort
Straight Selection is in some sense the opposite of straight insertion: Straight insertion considers in each step only the one next item of the source sequence and all items of the destination array to find the insertion point; straight selection considers all items of the source array to find the one withe least key and to deposit it as the one next item of the destination sequence. \

This is not a stable sort. \
O(n^2) \
worst case: O(n^2) swaps \
best case: O(1) swaps \

We may conclude in general the algorithm of straight selection is to be preferred over straight insertion.
